# Reproduction code for: How much research shared on Facebook is hidden from public view?

> Over the years, Facebook never succeeded to enter the main stage of altmetrics research despite its undisputed position as the biggest social platforms for the general public as well as scholars alike. In this study, we argue that the lack of attention for Facebook is rooted in nature of the data collection methods hitherto, which limits the results to data generated by activity on a select group of public pages and groups. We present a new method of collecting shares, reactions, and comments across the platform including private timelines and use it to gather data for scholarly articles published with PLOS ONE in 2015, 2016, and 2017 and compare the results with data retrieved from Altmetric.com. The results not only show that half of all papers are missed by the limitation to public activity, but the actual volume of private engagement also approximates the patterns of engagement previously only observed for Twitter. Both results suggest that the role and impact of Facebook as a medium for science and scholarly communication has been underestimated. Furthermore, they emphasise the importance of openness and transparency around the collection and aggregation of altmetrics.

## Instructions

### Requirements

- Python 3.5 with the specified packages in order to reproduce figures and tables.

```pip install -r requirements.txt```

- *\*Optional\** Jupyter Notebook in order to explore the data and results

### Reproduce results

1. Download data from Dataverse

    ```wget ```

2. Preprocess data

    ```python prepare_data.py```

3. Open analysis notebook by launcing a Jupyter Notebook instance and opening `analysis.ipynb`

    ```jupyter notebook```

Optionally, you can also run `python analysis.py` to create the figures without opening the notebook.

## Useful Resources

| Resource | Link |
|-|-|
| Preprint | TBA |
| Article | TBA |
| Code | [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ScholCommLab/fhe-plos-paper)|
| Data | [Dataverse link TBA]() |